hey this is fresh talker this is a
variation of a puzzle I posted about a
year ago there is a long single-file
line outside of a dance club the first
person in line is unmarried and the last
person in line is married each person in
line only looks at the person in front
of them is a married person looking at
an unmarried person the answer choices
are yes/no and cannot be determined
surveys have found that approximately
80% of people cannot get the correct
answer in a version of this problem can
you figure it out give this problem a
try and when you're ready keep watching
the video for the solution
the short answer is that the first
person in line who is married is looking
at an unmarried person the answer is yes
now since many people cannot get this
correct answer I'm going to go through
the logic in detail to show you why this
is true
so we'll number the people in line from
1 to n where 1 is the first person in
line and N is the last person in line
let's consider person 2 if person 2 is
married that person 2 is a married
person looking at an unmarried person 1
in front of them so that would lead to
the answer of yes however we do not know
whether 2 is married so we have to
consider that 2 might be unmarried if
that is the case we then consider the
next person in line 3 the logic is going
to be the same if 3 is a married person
then 3 is a married person looking at an
unmarried person 2 in front of them
otherwise 3 is also unmarried so we then
proceed to the next person in line 4 we
can continue this logic to check each
person in line the first person that we
find in line who is married person K is
looking at an unmarried person K minus 1
in front of them now we may not know if
any of these people are married in that
case all of the people in line 1 all the
way to n minus 1 are unmarried but in
that case we know the very last person
in line n is married which means that
person N is a married person looking at
an unmarried person n minus 1 in front
of them therefore the answer is yes
there must be a
a married person looking at an unmarried
person did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch me on my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch around social media at pressure
Locker and if you like this video please
check out my book there are links in the
video description